# Data-Visualization-Project

The Super Bowl is an emotional event involving the annual playoff championship game of the National Football League (NFL). It is one of the most viewed athletic events in the world, and it frequently draws the greatest audience of all American broadcasts during the year. Due to the high viewership, commercial airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the year. This prompts corporations to produce their most expensive advertising for the broadcast and thus, commercial viewership has become a vital component of the event. The Super Bowl is also the second-largest food-consuming event in the United States, after Thanksgiving dinner. 

Viewers tend to be emotionally invested in such games as they go through feelings of anxiousness, happiness, frustration, and optimism. It is very common for groups of people to watch the game with their friends and family that share this experience together. To be able to present a story about your brand and product to this audience can be genius marketing. Commercials have the strength to make viewers laugh, cry, and invoke feelings and emotion about their product and brand. Super Bowl commercials clearly necessitate meticulous persuasive rhetoric in their planning, design, and execution.

For such an important marketing project, commercials need to be respectful to historical data and performance of previous commercials. This project aims to gain insights and address certain research questions regarding the content of the commercials. My end goal for this project is to provide visualizations for stakeholders who are “time-strapped” people, to have sufficient information to make a key decision on the direction of marketing strategies. 
